# Comparison with other studies

<p style="text-align:justify;">
The work done during this challenge involved a multi-enter quantitative T1 mapping study using the NIST phantom across various sites. This work overlaps with two recent studies (Bane et al. 2018; Keenan et al. 2021). (Bane et al. 2018) focused on the reproducibility of two standard quantitative T1 techniques (inversion recovery and variable flip angle) and a wide variety of site-specific T1 mapping protocols for DCE, mostly shorter VFA protocols, which were implemented at eight imaging centers covering the same 3 MRI vendors as were submitted to the challenge GE/Philips/Siemens). The inter-platform coefficient of variation for the standard inversion recovery T1 protocol of 5.46% at 3.0 T, which was substantially lower than for the standard VFA protocol (22.87%). However, Bane et al.’s work differed from the challenge in several ways. First, the standard imaging protocol for inversion recovery used by Bane et al. had more inversion times (14 compared to the challenge’s 4) to cover the entire range of T1 values of the phantom. Secondly, Bane et al. used a single traveling phantom for all sites, whereas the challenge used a total of 8 different phantoms (some were shared amongst people who participated independently). Thirdly,  Bane et al. averaged the signals within each ROI of each sphere prior to fitting for the T1 values, whereas the challenge pipeline fits the T1 values in a per-voxel basis and only subsequently calculates the mean/median/std. They also only acquired magnitude data, in contrast to the challenge where participants were encouraged to submit both complex and magnitude-only data, where we observed that for the Barral et al. fitting model and protocol, there is no substantial difference in quality of fit for the human range of T1 values. Lastly, the implementations of the common inversion recovery protocols were fully standardized (full protocol) across all the platforms (except for two exceptions where one manufacturer couldn’t achieve the lowest TI) which was imposed and coordinated by the principal researchers. In contrast, the challenge sought to explore the variations that would occur for a less-restricted protocol (Table 2) that is independently-implemented at multiple centers, which more closely emulates the quantitative MR research flow (publication of a technique and protocol →  independently implement the pulse sequence and/or protocol → use the new implementation independently in a study → publish). Of note, in the challenge, one participating group submitted large multicenter datasets they coordinated themselves which emulates the question studied by (Bane et al. 2018) by imaging a single phantom across at 7 different imaging sites, albeit doing so on a single manufacturer. Using this subset, the mean cross-site COV was 2.9 % (range: 1.6 - 4.9 %) for the first five spheres, which is in agreement with the range of observations for all spheres by (Bane et al. 2018) at 3T using their full inversion recovery protocol (COV = 5.46 %; range: 0.99 - 14.6 %). 
</p>

<p style="text-align:justify;">
Another study, (Keenan et al. 2021), also investigated the accuracy of T1 mapping techniques using a single ISMRM/NIST system phantom at multiple sites and on multiple platforms. Like (Bane et al. 2018), they used an inversion recovery imaging protocol optimized for the full range of T1 values represented in the ISMRM/NIST phantom, which consisted of 9 to 10 inversion times and a TR of 4500 ms (TR ~ 5T1 of WM).  They reported no consistent pattern of differences in measured inversion recovery T1 values across MRI vendors for the two T1 mapping techniques they used (inversion recovery and VFA). They observed relative errors between their T1 measurements and the reference values of the phantom to be below 10% for all T1 values and highest at the lowest and highest T1 values of the phantom.
</p>